Welcome to the repository for the research that I, Madison Thantu, conducted as a part of the Distributed REsearch Apprenticeships for Master’s (DREAM) program 2022-2023 cohort, under the guidance of Dr. Richard Zemel.

The link to my final report documenting this research and my findings can be found here, [Bubble Bursting Implementations and Dynamics in Recommender Systems](https://madisonthantu.github.io/), and below is the abstract of the final report.

### Abstract

Recommender systems (RSs), which offer personalized suggestions to users, power many of today’s social media, e-commerce, and entertainment services. Despite the utility and ubiquity of RSs, there is growing concern about the harmful effects that propagate from these systems, such as filter bubbles, user homogenization, and unfairness, and the fundamental trade-off that exists between accuracy and diversity. Although these concerns have become mainstream, our understanding of how these detrimental effects emerge in the complex RS ecosystem remains incomplete, and the present study aims to contribute to this important line of research. We first operationalize user behavior homogenization and filter bubbles, defining a set of attributes for which our subsequent metrics are tailored to. We then implement several recommender models to represent the accuracy-diversity prioritization spectrum, including an accuracy-driven myopic algorithm, a diversity-promoting algorithm inspired by the xQuAD framework, and a naively exploratory random algorithm. We conclude our report with a comparative analysis of how the three aforementioned phenomena emerged, evolved, and interacted with one another in our simulation ecosystem as the prioritization of accuracy versus diversity is varied.
